Revamp latest updates page (#2859)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/guides/latest-updates.mdx

Keep up with the latest and greatest from Qiskit and IBM Quantum&reg;!

For all product announcements, visit the [Announcements](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/announcements/product-updates) page on IBM Quantum Platform Classic.

<CloudContent>
Jump to [IBM Quantum Platform](#latest-platform) | [Qiskit SDK](#latest-qiskit-sdk) | [Qiskit Runtime Client](#latest-qiskit-runtime) | [Qiskit Runtime Service](#latest-runtime-service) | [Qiskit Transpiler Service](#latest-qiskit-transpiler-service) | [Qiskit Functions](#latest-qiskit-functions) | [Documentation](#latest-docs)
</CloudContent>
<LegacyContent>
Jump to [Qiskit SDK](#latest-qiskit-sdk) | [Qiskit Runtime Client](#latest-qiskit-runtime) | [Qiskit Runtime Service](#latest-runtime-service) | [Qiskit Transpiler Service](#latest-qiskit-transpiler-service) | [Qiskit Functions](#latest-qiskit-functions) | [Documentation](#latest-docs)
</LegacyContent>

<CloudContent>
<span id="latest-platform"></span>
## IBM Quantum Platform

This section summarizes the recent enhancements and new features for IBM Quantum Platform.

**27 March 2025**

- Cost limits for Standard Plan
  

>   - Standard Plan users with sufficient access can now view and edit maximum cost limits for their instances. Refer to the [documentation](/guides/upgrade-from-open#set-the-maximum-cost-limit) for more information.

Author: updated!

>   - Standard Plan users with sufficient access can now view and edit maximum cost limits for their instances. Refer to the [documentation](/guides/upgrade-from-open#set-the-maximum-cost-limit) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
  - Standard Plan users with sufficient access can now view and edit [maximum cost limits](/guides/upgrade-from-open#set-the-maximum-cost-limit) for their instances.
```

- Job management updates

  - Now only administrators can delete workloads created by other users in an account, and collaborators will only be able to delete their own workloads.

- Updated authentication error messages

>   - We have improved error messaging for account and authentication processes to reduce issues with signup flow. We have also updated our [Support page](/support) with expanded recommendations for troubleshooting and resolving common errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Error messaging has been improved for account and authentication processes to reduce issues with signup flow. The [Support page](/support) has been expanded with recommendations for troubleshooting and resolving common errors.
```

Reviewer: Surely our text doesn't have to exactly copy the announcement?

> - Increased default data retention

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Increased default data retention.
```

  - The default data retention period for the new IBM Quantum Platform has been increased to three years, up from one year on IBM Quantum Platform Classic.

> - Resolved inconsistent behavior due to caching

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Resolved inconsistent behavior due to caching.
```

>   - We have resolved some inconsistent behavior seen when updating instance limits, tags, and QPU resources, which was due to caching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Some inconsistent behavior seen when updating instance limits, tags, and QPU resources has been resolved, which was due to caching.
```

- For full details on the early access release and upcoming improvements, [check out the blog.](https://www.ibm.com/quantum/blog/iqp-upgrade)
</CloudContent>

<span id="latest-qiskit-sdk"></span>
## Qiskit SDK v1.4.0

**21 Feb 2025**

- The latest Qiskit version, 1.4.0, has been released on GitHub and is available on [PyPi](https://pypi.org/project/qiskit/). Even if you recently upgraded to v1.3.3, you should still upgrade to Qiskit v1.4, because this is the last minor version of the v1.x series, and contains all of the deprecation warnings for API changes in Qiskit v2.0. Install it now, and see what to change to be ready for 2.0!

>   Wondering what will change? Read the [changelog](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/releases/tag/1.4.0) and the [v1.4 release notes](/api/qiskit/release-notes/1.4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Wondering what will change? Read the [changelog](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/releases/tag/1.4.0) and the [v1.4 release notes.](/api/qiskit/release-notes/1.4)
```

{/* use url format /api/qiskit/release-notes/X.X to link to the specific X.X version of the release notes */}

> - *To see the release notes for all versions, visit the [Qiskit SDK release notes](/api/qiskit/release-notes).*

Reviewer: I wouldn't put this in italics, and it feels like it should be first, and just once in the section.

<span id="latest-qiskit-runtime"></span>
## Qiskit Runtime client 0.37.0

**13 March 2025**

- Deprecation

>   - The `IBMBackend` attributes `max_shots` and `max_experiments`, as well as the property `max_circuits`, have all been deprecated. Previously, these attribute values represented the maximum number of shots and circuits that could be submitted in one job. See [job limits](/guides/job-limits#job-limits) for details.

Reviewer: Can we get rid of these single bullets and just have them be a regular paragraph?

- New features

  - `qiskit-ibm-runtime` is now compatible with Qiskit v2.0. This means that classes and methods removed in Qiskit v2.0 have also been removed or handled accordingly.  The `pulse`- and `channel`-related changes are highlighted in the following list. See the [Pulse migration guide](/migration-guides/pulse-migration) for details.

    - `Channel` methods in `IBMBackend` have been removed.

>     - The backend configuration class `PulseBackendConfiguration` has been removed, so all backends will now be returned as `QasmBackendConfiguration`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The backend configuration class `PulseBackendConfiguration` has been removed, so all backends are now  returned as `QasmBackendConfiguration`.
```

Reviewer: All this language like "will now be" is so hard for translation.

    - `PulseDefaults` (backend defaults) can still be retrieved but they are no longer necessary when creating a backend `Target`.

> - See the full [0.37.0 release notes](/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/release-notes#0370-2025-03-13).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- See the full [0.37.0 release notes.](/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/release-notes#0370-2025-03-13)
```

{/* use url format /api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/release-notes#0XYZ to link to the specific 0.XY.Z version of the release notes */}

- *To see the release notes for all versions, visit the [Qiskit Runtime client release notes](/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/release-notes).*

<span id="latest-runtime-service"></span>
## Qiskit Runtime service

> This summary of the latest changes to the Qiskit Runtime service applies to anyone using Qiskit Runtime, regardless of how you communicate with the service (using qiskit-ibm-runtime or otherwise), or which version of the client SDK you use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This summary of the latest changes to the Qiskit Runtime service applies to anyone using Qiskit Runtime, regardless of how you communicate with the service (by using `qiskit-ibm-runtime` or otherwise), or which version of the client SDK you use.
```

    - After the endpoints are removed, `job.stream_results()` and `job.interim_results()` will be removed from the [qiskit-ibm-runtime](/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime) client.
    - Additional methods, such as `job.result()` currently use the deprecated endpoints.  Upgrade to `qiskit_ibm_runtime` 0.25 or later before the endpoints are removed to avoid disruption.

**18 June 2024**

  - The `optimization_level` option is deprecated for Estimator V2 and will be removed no sooner than 30 September 2024.

**3 June 2024**

  - Probabilistic error amplification (PEA) error mitigation method is now available as an experimental option for Estimator V2. See the [`EstimatorOptions` API reference](/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/options-estimator-options) for more details.

**28 March 2024**

  - Qiskit Runtime primitives now support OpenQASM 3 as the input format for circuits and standard JSON output format. See [Qiskit Runtime REST API](/api/runtime) for examples.
</details>

<span id="latest-qiskit-transpiler-service"></span>
## Qiskit Transpiler Service client v0.11.0

**25 March 2025**

> - See the [v0.11.0 release notes](/api/qiskit-ibm-transpiler/release-notes#0110-2025-03-25).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- See the [v0.11.0 release notes.](/api/qiskit-ibm-transpiler/release-notes#0110-2025-03-25)
```

- *To see the release notes for all versions, visit the [Qiskit Transpiler Service client release notes](/api/qiskit-ibm-transpiler/release-notes).*

<details>
<summary><b>Previous updates</b></summary>

- Qiskit Transpiler Service client v0.3.0

>   - The Qiskit Transpiler Service leverages the resources of IBM Cloud&reg; to provide users with the latest transpilation capabilities from the Qiskit SDK. It offers a Python library that helps users seamlessly integrate the service into their current Qiskit patterns and workflows. Perhaps most importantly, the service invites users to experiment with new and improved AI-powered transpiler passes — cutting-edge tools that might be faster and produce better results than traditional transpilation methods. [Read the blog for more information.](https://www.ibm.com/quantum/blog/ai-transpiler-passes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The Qiskit Transpiler Service leverages IBM Cloud&reg; resources to provide users with the latest transpilation capabilities from the Qiskit SDK. It offers a Python library that helps users seamlessly integrate the service into their current Qiskit patterns and workflows. Perhaps most importantly, the service invites users to experiment with new and improved AI-powered transpiler passes — cutting-edge tools that might be faster and produce better results than traditional transpilation methods. Read the [blog](https://www.ibm.com/quantum/blog/ai-transpiler-passes) for more information.
```

</details>

<span id="latest-qiskit-functions"></span>
## Qiskit Functions

**10 March 2025**

- Latest additions to the Qiskit Functions Catalog

  - [Iskay Quantum Optimizer - A Qiskit Function by Kipu Quantum](/guides/kipu-optimization)
  - [Singularity Machine Learning - Classification: A Qiskit Function by Multiverse Computing](/guides/multiverse-computing-singularity)
  - [HI-VQE Chemistry - A Qiskit Function by Qunova Computing](/guides/qunova-chemistry)

> - To get started, explore the [Qiskit Functions documentation](/guides/functions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To get started, explore the [Qiskit Functions documentation.](/guides/functions)
```

<details>
<summary><b>Previous updates</b></summary>

**16 September 2024**

> - Introducing the Qiskit Functions preview, for IBM Quantum Premium Plan users. To get started, `pip install qiskit-ibm-catalog`, and explore the [Qiskit Functions documentation](/guides/functions). With the Qiskit Functions Catalog client, you can submit workloads to abstracted services designed to accelerate your research - sign in with your existing IBM Quantum Platform credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introducing the Qiskit Functions preview, for IBM Quantum Premium Plan users. To get started, `pip install qiskit-ibm-catalog` and explore the [Qiskit Functions documentation.](/guides/functions) With the Qiskit Functions Catalog client, you can submit workloads to abstracted services designed to accelerate your research. Sign in with your existing IBM Quantum Platform credentials.
```

    - **Circuit functions** provide a simplified interface for running circuits. They receive user-provided abstract circuits and observables as input, then manage synthesis, optimization, and execution of the representative ISA circuit. Circuit functions bring together the latest capabilities in transpilation, error suppression, and error mitigation to make utility-grade performance accessible out of the box. This allows computational scientists to focus on mapping their problems to circuits, rather than building the pattern for each problem from scratch.

    - **Application functions** cover higher-level tasks, like exploring algorithms and domain-specific use cases. Enterprise developers and data scientists may not have the background quantum information science knowledge for working with circuits, and instead hope to bring their domain knowledge to advance quantum computing algorithms and applications. With application functions, users can enter their classical inputs and receive solutions so they can more easily experiment with plugging quantum into their domain-specific workflows.

> - With the launch of the Qiskit Functions Catalog, Premium Plan developers will be able to start exploring the IBM Circuit function. The IBM Circuit function includes the latest AI-powered extensions to Qiskit for circuit synthesis, optimization, and scheduling, as well as advanced error mitigation methods to return the most accurate estimations possible with today's hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With the launch of the Qiskit Functions Catalog, Premium Plan developers can explore the IBM Circuit function. The IBM Circuit function includes the latest AI-powered extensions to Qiskit for circuit synthesis, optimization, and scheduling, as well as advanced error mitigation methods to return the most accurate estimations possible with today's hardware.
```

  Users can purchase licenses for the following functions contributed by our partners at Q-CTRL, QEDMA, Algorithmiq, and Qunasys.

- **Circuit functions**

  - Q-CTRL is releasing a circuit function that applies AI-driven quantum control techniques, with which users can scale successfully to larger problems.
  - Algorithmiq is releasing a circuit function that applies TEM (tensor-network error mitigation), an error mitigation method for obtaining estimators with fewer shots than the PEC (probabilistic error cancellation) method.
  - QEDMA is releasing a circuit function that uses proprietary protocols for efficient and accurate characterization of the noisy QPU operations, and applies error suppression and error mitigation based on the characterization data.

- **Application functions**

  - QunaSys is releasing a chemistry application function comprising three algorithms meant to solve the ground state energy estimation (GSEE) problem.

>   - Q-CTRL is also releasing an optimization solver with which users can pass a graph or an objective, and receive solution costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Q-CTRL is releasing an optimization solver with which users can pass a graph or an objective, and receive solution costs.
```

</details>

<span id="latest-docs"></span>
## Documentation

{/* Copy over the latest "What's new in the docs" announcement */}

IBM Quantum documentation recently added a number of user-facing improvements, including content updates and new features. Many of these changes are a result of specific user requests! Check out the highlights below.

**18 December 2024**

- New pages

  - Introductory and get-started material for these [Qiskit addons](/guides/addons):
[SQD](/guides/qiskit-addons-sqd) | [AQC-Tensor](/guides/qiskit-addons-aqc) | [OBP](/guides/qiskit-addons-obp) | [MPF](/guides/qiskit-addons-mpf)

>   - [Debug Qiskit Runtime jobs](/guides/debug-qiskit-runtime-jobs) with the NEAT class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Debug Qiskit Runtime jobs](/guides/debug-qiskit-runtime-jobs) with the NEAT class.
```

>   - [Integrate external quantum resources with Qiskit](/open-source/create-a-provider) guide in Open-source resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Integrate external quantum resources with Qiskit](/open-source/create-a-provider) guide in Open-source resources.
```

>   - New migration guide: [Migrate from Qiskit Pulse to fractional gates](/migration-guides/pulse-migration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - New migration guide: [Migrate from Qiskit Pulse to fractional gates.](/migration-guides/pulse-migration)
```

>   - New Qiskit Functions guide: [Singularity Machine Learning - Classification](/guides/multiverse-computing-singularity)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - New Qiskit Functions guide: [Singularity Machine Learning - Classification.](/guides/multiverse-computing-singularity)
```

>   - [Use Qiskit Code Assistant in local mode](/guides/qiskit-code-assistant-local)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Use Qiskit Code Assistant in local mode.](/guides/qiskit-code-assistant-local)
```

  - Updated code examples to fix a bug in [Get started with primitives](/guides/get-started-with-primitives)

  - Updates to [Introduction to options](/guides/runtime-options-overview) to include the new [gen3-turbo](/guides/runtime-options-overview#experimental-option-note) options

  - Copyediting and typo fixes across the documentation, including bugs reported by open-source contributors - thank you!

- New API reference documentation

  - [Qiskit SDK v1.3](/api/qiskit/release-notes)
  - [qiskit-ibm-runtime v0.32-0.34](/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/release-notes)
  - [qiskit-ibm-transpiler v0.8-0.9](/api/qiskit-ibm-transpiler/release-notes)
  - Qiskit addons: [qiskit-addon-aqc-tensor](/api/qiskit-addon-aqc-tensor/release-notes) | [qiskit-addon-cutting](/api/qiskit-addon-cutting/release-notes) | [qiskit-addon-obp](/api/qiskit-addon-obp/release-notes) | [qiskit-addon-mpf](/api/qiskit-addon-mpf/release-notes) | [qiskit-addon-sqd](/api/qiskit-addon-sqd/release-notes) | [qiskit-addon-utils](/api/qiskit-addon-utils/release-notes)

- User experience improvements

  - The required versions of packages used in code examples are now listed at the top of each guide.

>   - Bug in menu view on mobile devices is now fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A bug in menu view on mobile devices is now fixed.
```

>   - Search bar is now bigger for increased discoverability, and your search query is preserved after you close the search modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The search bar is now bigger for increased discoverability, and your search query is preserved after you close the search modal.
```
